README.md, before:

# parking_cv
Parking_cv is a machine learning project that uses an Xception DNN on Keras and Tensorflow to classify images extracted 
from a parking lot camera. It also uses OpenCV to handle image processing and display. 
![demo](screenshots/img.png)

## How to train the DNN
First we need to traverse all the folders inside the PKLot database 
(https://web.inf.ufpr.br/vri/databases/parking-lot-database/) by using the
```traverse_and_segment('route_to_PKLot_root')```. 

This will extract all the parking spaces inside each of the pictures and fit them on a 150x150 px frames.
Once finished we will need to train the neural network on the pictures we have just extracted (723790 parking spots), 
we do so by issuing the following command:
```
train.start()
```

This will take hours or minutes depending on your hardware (Training on an 12 thread, i7 8750H took 2 days), 
when finished it will generate a file named 'model3.h5'. If you want you can download my trained model and save it in the
content root: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ubyPzxLrnnSU6aR1Tmo8UcY2Wo4kDmIK/view?usp=sharing


## Create a parking lot from an image
If we don't have the .xml file for the parking lot we are going to use we can generate one by issuing the following
command:
```
p1 = Parking("demo1.xml", image="PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_07_30_01.jpg")
```
This will open a window with the image you have selected. Next step is to click on each parking spot to define its four
edges. Left click will define the parking spot as 'occupied', right click will define it as 'free'. 

Repeat for each parking spot you want to classify and middle click to update the preview. Once finished you can press 
any key to save the file as an .xml, following is an example of an .xml with an unique parking spot:
```
<parking id="demo1.xml">
    <space id="0" occupied="True">
        <contour>
            <point x="425" y="366" />
            <point x="520" y="381" />
            <point x="556" y="340" />
            <point x="422" y="319" />
        </contour>
    </space>
</parking>
```

## Load an existing parking lot from an .xml file

We then need to spawn a parking instance by using the coordinates of an existing parking lot:
```
p1 = Parking("PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Rainy/2013-03-13/2013-03-13_13_05_08.xml", image="PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_07_30_01.jpg")
```

## Update an existing parking lot status with a new image 
To update all of the parking spots on a parking lot we will need to first load the parking lot and issue the 
update_state_from_photo command.
This command internally calls a routine that splits the image into the parking spots defined in the .xml file and saves
their 150x150 crop into a 'temp' folder:
![demo](screenshots/img_1.png)
Once these files have been created, it feeds them into the DNN and infers their status.
```
p1.update_state_from_photo("PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_08_40_03.jpg")
```
This will ONLY update the running instance's status, not the file. To update the contents of the .xml file we will need to:
```
p1.save_state("demo1.xml")
```
Or issue the following commands to show the image (saves status when pressing any key):
```
p1.draw_boxes()
cv2.waitKey(0)
```

Commit message:

-Added requirements.txt Updated README.md

README.md, after:

# parking_cv
Parking_cv is a machine learning project that uses a Mini Xception DNN on Keras and Tensorflow to classify images extracted 
from a parking lot camera. It also uses OpenCV to handle image processing and display. 
![demo](screenshots/img.png)

## Install requirements
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
## How to train the DNN
First we need to traverse all the folders inside the PKLot database 
(https://web.inf.ufpr.br/vri/databases/parking-lot-database/) by using the
```traverse_and_segment('route_to_PKLot_root')```. 

This will extract all the parking spaces inside each of the pictures and fit them on a 150x150 px frames.
Once finished we will need to train the neural network on the pictures we have just extracted (723790 parking spots), 
we do so by issuing the following command:
```
train.start()
```

This will take hours or minutes depending on your hardware (Training on an 12 thread, i7 8750H took 2 days), 
when finished it will generate a file named 'model3.h5'. If you want you can download my trained model and save it in the
content root: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ubyPzxLrnnSU6aR1Tmo8UcY2Wo4kDmIK/view?usp=sharing


## Create a parking lot from an image
If we don't have the .xml file for the parking lot we are going to use we can generate one by issuing the following
command:
```
p1 = Parking("demo1.xml", image="PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_07_30_01.jpg")
```
This will open a window with the image you have selected. Next step is to click on each parking spot to define its four
edges. Left click will define the parking spot as 'occupied', right click will define it as 'free'. 

Repeat for each parking spot you want to classify and middle click to update the preview. Once finished you can press 
any key to save the file as an .xml, following is an example of an .xml with an unique parking spot:
```
<parking id="demo1.xml">
    <space id="0" occupied="True">
        <contour>
            <point x="425" y="366" />
            <point x="520" y="381" />
            <point x="556" y="340" />
            <point x="422" y="319" />
        </contour>
    </space>
</parking>
```

## Load an existing parking lot from an .xml file

We then need to spawn a parking instance by using the coordinates of an existing parking lot:
```
p1 = Parking("PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Rainy/2013-03-13/2013-03-13_13_05_08.xml", image="PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_07_30_01.jpg")
```

## Update an existing parking lot status with a new image 
To update all of the parking spots on a parking lot we will need to first load the parking lot and issue the 
update_state_from_photo command.
This command internally calls a routine that splits the image into the parking spots defined in the .xml file and saves
their 150x150 crop into a 'temp' folder:
![demo](screenshots/img_1.png)
Once these files have been created, it feeds them into the DNN and infers their status.
```
p1.update_state_from_photo("PKLot/PKLot/UFPR05/Sunny/2013-03-12/2013-03-12_08_40_03.jpg")
```
This will ONLY update the running instance's status, not the file. To update the contents of the .xml file we will need to:
```
p1.save_state("demo1.xml")
```
Or issue the following commands to show the image (saves status when pressing any key):
```
p1.draw_boxes()
cv2.waitKey(0)
```
